# EDA for FoodHub app
## Introduction

As the number of restaurants in New York continues to grow, busy students and professionals increasingly rely on food delivery services. FoodHub, a food aggregator app, connects customers with multiple restaurants, streamlining the ordering and delivery process.

The app facilitates direct orders from customers, assigns delivery personnel, and allows for real-time tracking and feedback. FoodHub collects data on these orders, which can provide insights into restaurant demand and enhance customer experience. This project aims to analyze this data to address key questions that will help FoodHub improve its services and business strategy.

## Questions for analysis

The following questions will guide the analysis:
* Which are the top 5 restaurants in terms of the number of orders received?
* The company wants to provide a promotional offer in the advertisement of the restaurants. The condition to get the offer is that the restaurants must have a rating count of more than 50 and the average rating should be greater than 4. What are the restaurants fulfilling the criteria to get the promotional offer?
* The company charges the restaurant 25% on the orders having cost greater than 20 dollars and 15% on the orders having cost greater than 5 dollars. What is the net revenue generated by the company across all orders?
* The company wants to analyze the total time required to deliver the food. What percentage of orders take more than 60 minutes to get delivered from the time the order is placed?
* The company wants to analyze the delivery time of the orders on weekdays and weekends. How does the mean delivery time vary during weekdays and weekends?

## Dataset

The data contains the different data related to a food order. The detailed data dictionary is given below.

* order_id: Unique ID of the order
* customer_id: ID of the customer who ordered the food
* restaurant_name: Name of the restaurant
* cuisine_type: Cuisine ordered by the customer
* cost: Cost of the order
* day_of_the_week: Indicates whether the order is placed on a weekday or weekend (The weekday is from Monday to Friday and the weekend is Saturday and Sunday)
* rating: Rating given by the customer out of 5
* food_preparation_time: Time (in minutes) taken by the restaurant to prepare the food. This is calculated by taking the difference between the timestamps of the restaurant's order confirmation and the delivery person's pick-up confirmation.
* delivery_time: Time (in minutes) taken by the delivery person to deliver the food package. This is calculated by taking the difference between the timestamps of the delivery person's pick-up confirmation and drop-off information

## Project overview

The data analysis was conducted using Python, utilizing key libraries such as NumPy, Pandas, Matplotlib, and Seaborn. The complete code along with the conclusions are available in the [Jupyter notebook](https://github.com/dmoralesb1020/Data-Science-Portfolio/blob/main/EDA%20-%20FoodHub/FoodHub%20Data%20Analysis.ipynb) Below are the steps I undertook during this project:

* Setting up the environment
* Handling missing values
* Performing univariate analysis for numerical and categorical variables
* Conducting multivariate analysis
* Making the calculations required to answer the formulated questions
* Preparing conclusions
* Presenting recommendations
